# time
# 130 - 200 worked on taking notes in markdown
# 200 - data modeling exercise

# 300 - 430 codecademy ruby track

# data modeling leture notes



# links

https://gist.github.com/raghubetina/a1b6e89e24a8c3acae6f0b63a1fd3323

https://www.markdownguide.org/

https://www.markdownguide.org/cheat-sheet/


# todo
* ~finish treehouse loops~
* ~start fcc ruby track~

# CC Ruby notes
# print - prints whatever info to the screen

# puts (put string) - adds a new balnk line after the thing you want to print.

# Ruby string methods!

# .length = returns the length of a string.
# .reverse = returns a backwards version of a string.
# .upcase & .downcase - converts a string to uppercase or lowercase.

# gets - gets input from the user
# gets.chomp - removes the extra line afterinput

# string interoplation = #{first_name} -> #bob



# simple user input ruby app

`print "What's your first name? "
first_name = gets.chomp
first_name.capitalize!

print "What's your last name? "
last_name = gets.chomp
last_name.capitalize!

print "What city are you from? "
city = gets.chomp
city.capitalize!

print "What state or province are you from? "
state = gets.chomp
state.upcase!

puts "Your name is #{first_name} #{last_name} and you're from #{city}, #{state}!"`


# Flow control

`print "Integer please: "
user_num = Integer(gets.chomp)

if user_num < 0
  puts "You picked a negative integer!"
elsif user_num > 0
  puts "You picked a positive integer!"
else
  puts "You picked zero!"
end`

# if - take an expression that evaluates to either `true` or `false`.  If that expression is `true`, Ruby execues the block of code.  If false, the block of code does not execute.

`if 1 < 2
  print "I'm getting printed because one is less than two!"
end`


# else - an if/elxe statment says, "if this expression is true, run this code block; otherwies run the code after the else statement.

# elseif - can add any number of alternatives to an if/else statement.


# unless - to check if something is false, rather than if it's true